# <![CDATA[ChinAI #360: Anthropic’s Dogma on US-China AI Competition]]>

- **Source**: ChinAI
- **URL**: https://chinai.substack.com/p/anthropics-dogmatic-views-on-us-china
- **Time**: Tue, 26 May 2026 11:52:35 GMT
- **Heat**: 

## Summary

ChinAI #360: Anthropic’s Dogma on US-China AI Competition ChinAI Newsletter Subscribe Sign in ChinAI #360: Anthropic’s Dogma on US-China AI Competition Jeffrey Ding May 26, 2026 70 15 12 Share Greetings from a world where… church is in session …As always, the searchable archive of all past issues is...

## Content

ChinAI #360: Anthropic’s Dogma on US-China AI Competition ChinAI Newsletter Subscribe Sign in ChinAI #360: Anthropic’s Dogma on US-China AI Competition Jeffrey Ding May 26, 2026 70 15 12 Share Greetings from a world where… church is in session …As always, the searchable archive of all past issues is here . Please please subscribe here to support ChinAI under a Guardian /Wikipedia-style tipping model (everyone gets the same content but those who can pay support access for all AND compensation for awesome ChinAI contributors). Anthropic’s Dogma on US-China AI Competition I’ve been going to church since I was a kid. Early on at the University of Iowa, when I identified as an evangelical Christian, I went on mission trips overseas and led prayer meetings. Over the years, my faith has morphed and faded and deepened and changed. Today, as fellow “ exvangelicals ”, my wife and I still attend a Lutheran church almost every week, and we go to a young adult Bible study on Wednesday nights. All this to say that I am relatively sensitive to dogmatism: an unfounded confidence in asserted opinions not based in fact. As I read more and more of Anthropic’s policy papers and CEO Dario Amodei’s blog posts, the elements of religious dogma abound: infallible faith in a set of unquestioned beliefs; justification of doctrine based on appeals to exclusive access to divine wisdom ; an unwillingness to consider contradictory evidence. Sound familiar? On May 14, Anthropic laid out its beliefs about U.S.-China competition in a new paper titled “ 2028: Two scenarios for global AI leadership .” This paper envisions two scenarios for the world in 2028: in the first, the U.S. has a commanding lead in AI; in the second, China’s AI ecosystem remains neck-and-neck, which results in “authoritarian AI leadership”. Their policy prescription is to intensify efforts to prevent Chinese labs from accessing export-controlled chips. Taking on the position of a religious skeptic, let us question seven of this post’s unfounded assumptions. Assumption #1: Because transformative AI arrives in two years, the actions that decide the US-China competition will only occur in this limited window. In January 2025, Dario posted a version of this “two scenarios” essay, in which he warned that transformative AI — “AI that is smarter than almost all humans at almost all things” — would arrive in 2026-2027 . What explains the updated timeline? Why did we go from 2026 to 2028? Looking back at my rebuttal to Dario’s post, it’s funny (and sad) how neatly this point still applies to the recent Anthropic paper: “ It’s really important to note Dario’s assumed one-to-two year timeline. I’ve been in governance of AI circles since 2017. In that time, I’ve consistently heard some iteration of: AGI is two years away! It’s the Bruno Caboclo of technologies: always two years away from being two years away .” I can’t wait until next year’s paper when Anthropic tells us that we only have a limited window of time before

## Links

