# <![CDATA[ChinAI #357: AI Surveillance in Chinese Universities]]>

- **Source**: ChinAI
- **URL**: https://chinai.substack.com/p/chinai-357-ai-surveillance-in-chinese
- **Time**: Mon, 04 May 2026 11:40:14 GMT
- **Heat**: 

## Summary

ChinAI #357: AI Surveillance in Chinese Universities ChinAI Newsletter Subscribe Sign in ChinAI #357: AI Surveillance in Chinese Universities Jeffrey Ding May 04, 2026 28 2 6 Share Greetings from a world where… one must weigh every word with care [字斟句酌] …As always, the searchable archive of all past...

## Content

ChinAI #357: AI Surveillance in Chinese Universities ChinAI Newsletter Subscribe Sign in ChinAI #357: AI Surveillance in Chinese Universities Jeffrey Ding May 04, 2026 28 2 6 Share Greetings from a world where… one must weigh every word with care [字斟句酌] …As always, the searchable archive of all past issues is here . Please please subscribe here to support ChinAI under a Guardian /Wikipedia-style tipping model (everyone gets the same content but those who can pay support access for all AND compensation for awesome ChinAI contributors). Feature Translation: Under the Camera’s Gaze, I Changed from a University Lecturer into a “Performer” Context: Xiaoxi 1 is a lecturer at a second-tier university in northeastern China (think: a school like Heilongjiang Institute of Technology). Beginning around March 2024, her school and others in the province started to introduce AI surveillance systems. Over 90% of classrooms in Xiaoxi’s school have implemented the system. In the typical set-up, one camera is positioned in the front of the classroom, while another watches from the back of the room. The cameras record students’ head-up rates (as an indicator of attentiveness), the number of students seated in the front row, interaction patterns with the teacher, their facial expressions, as well as the teacher’s verbal tics, gestures, and whether their speech content triggers any “sensitive keywords.” In some cases, universities even mount a screen next to the classroom blackboard that displays these metrics as they update in real-time. In this week’s feature translation of a Perpetual Light Studio [极昼工作室] longform article, reported by Xiaohan Wei and Sun Ran, we hear from students and teachers like Xiaoxi about the effect of AI surveillance in Chinese university classrooms. Getty Images on Unsplash Key Takeaways: University professors feel alienated by AI surveillance systems, turning from “instructors” into “performers.” The system monitors whether lecture content touches upon sensitive topics, which has prevented Xiaoxi, who teaches ideological and political education classes, from speaking with ease. One student’s Japanese-language teacher was reprimanded for sitting down during class, after the system flagged this behavior. The article quotes Xiaoxi, “ I feel as though I’ve been alienated by AI. I originally aspired for a truly brilliant classroom environment; yet, suddenly finding myself under constant surveillance, I seem to have shifted toward pursuing the avoidance of errors and compliance. Under surveillance, the very essence of education has become somewhat distorted .” Many teachers question the inflated standards demanded by the metrics collected by the surveillance system. Another junior lecturer, Xiaoxie, was called out for a low “head-up rate” among his students, in a digital media course at a second-tier university. Xiaoxie eventually left academia. From the article, “ He had no desire to exercise excessive control over his students; instead, he pr

## Links

